big hello from portland oregon welcome
to another episode of b2b marketing and
more
this is what b2b marketing is all about
i talk about everything b2b marketing
related from content marketing sales
enablement paid media social media even
community management
today we're going to talk about
something related to community
management and that's actually a great
way to drive organic traffic for your
brand and i have a very very special
guest oh my god
i love her
melissa romo
and she is a global head of content
social media and customer efficacy at
sage
if you have never heard of sage sage is
a two billion dollar public company with
sas based platform for accounting epr
and hr
with payroll as well so melissa welcome
so happy to have you
thank you pam i'm thrilled to be here
and hello from hoboken new jersey
how was the weather over there today oh
gorgeous gorgeous almost 80 degrees oh
my god and it's the middle of october
that we record this so it's pretty nice
i'm in raleigh north carolina now and
the weather is fantastic the leaves
started falling that's gorgeous melissa
i know that you have a wide array of
experience especially in the field of
content marketing but today we're going
to talk about something a little bit
different it's about customer advocacy
social media and also community
management so can you tell us the
community that you are leading and
managing sh our community is called sage
champion okay i like that name i like
the name the name was inspired by really
what the mission of the program is which
is to make our super fan customers feel
incredibly special recognizing the
customer
and creating a closed community it's an
invite-only community that we bring
these super fans into
the main thrust of activity is to
present
challenges to them that they can
complete and receive rewards
[Music]
and with the reward points they can
receive gifts they can participate in
special experiences they can ask us to
donate to charity there are all kinds of
things they can do with their rewards we
have a leaderboard so they can track
their reward with other customers it's
really about customer recognition and it
has a very careful design to make sure
that the people were bringing in are the
ones we really want to reward and
recognize this way there's some other
things that we do at the program that i
can talk about but at the starting point
it's about recognizing the customer
sounds like the community management
part of it is not just kind of like
people asking questions it's more or
less you have multiple different tools
and also incentive to actually help your
super users engage so can you tell us
how did you get that started are you
using a third-party platform to manage
this or do you build that in-house
we are using a third-party platform i
can't say who it is that's totally fine
if you google leading customer advocacy
sas platform you will come up with the
name of this platform
no big secret it's many many companies
use this platform it's not proprietary
to us
if we think about lessons learned which
i know we're going to talk about towards
the end as well but one of the big
lessons i would say if you start a
community
and you don't have a platform to support
you there is really a limit to how big
and how active that community can become
because you will be doing everything
manually and you will get to the point
where very quickly where you cannot
engage the community the way you want to
giving that this is invitation only i
assume you grow the community
organically is that true it is
invitation only and grown organically
that way so we
go into areas of the business where we
know we'll find our super fans so we're
hunting for our super fans so we look at
the nps surveys this is one of the best
places to go and
anyone who's rates us a 7 to 10 on nps
we will invite them to become a part of
the community
one thing i'll say on nps is it may seem
intuitive to invite just your nines and
tens into your superfan community
because the seven and eights are on the
border yeah
but your seven and eights are the people
where you can make up the most ground in
terms of improving their experience and
these are actually your future super
fans they have the potential to be super
fans and it's important to bring them in
and so far we've had a good experience
doing that i love that you share that in
terms of your selection criteria which
is based on mps and you are not just
limited people rated you 9010 it's
anybody like 708 that has potential to
be part of the super user and superfan i
think that's fantastic do you actually
use any kind of pay media effort to
actually drive awareness of the
community and try to promote it we
actually don't because we know who we're
inviting
right with paid media post an ad and you
support it with paid media because
you're trying to publicize something to
a broader group of people a broader
audience but we know who we're going out
to find we have their contact
information and we don't need the paid
media to do what we need to do
to actually support it in the future
when i think this program has reached a
critical mass and it could become a
proof point to become a customer of sage
i could definitely see us promoting this
program externally with some paid media
behind it but we're not at that point
yet we're very focused on recruitment
right now i'm very happy that you
mentioned that because whenever i talk
to a lot of you to be
marketers and they always juggle between
how much is it we should focus on
organic growth and if we really want to
grow the platform much bigger do we
actually inject or infuse pain media
dollars associated with it and if you do
that how does that impact the quality of
the users or the audience there's always
a continuous discussion but i do agree
with you to some extent if you want to
grow and scale in the long term pay
media does play a role but you are
making that call as you walk that
journey and then you can determine when
it's the right time to do that i like
that a lot yeah
so one of the lesson learned you
mentioned is basically that in order to
actually manage your community
management and well you need to have a
third party platform and obviously
depending on the company some companies
if they already a fairly decent and
sophisticated sas based platform they
might already have a developers in-house
that be able to develop that for
themselves but i do agree with you
having a third party platform is super
critical in addition to that
what are some of the challenges you
encounter while you are trying to grow
your community
one of the interesting things we learned
really early on and we're still
grappling with how we address it is
people are not dying to be in our
community yeah even the super fans
people are really busy people are very
busy they use accounting software just
because they use it for their job it's
not like you join like a hiking
community you join like a movie watching
community that's very much like your
personal passion that will infuse that
but it's job so i completely understand
that they are not necessarily crazy
about joining that it just underscores
the point that you have to sell it to
your customers you have to make sure
they understand what's in it for them it
has to be fun like you said pam i mean
this is not a movie watching a community
or hiking club or something like that
it's still at the end of the day it's
about accounting and it's about your
business software so it has to be fun
and i would just tell people don't
forget what people love about
communities and that is communing with
other people talking talking to the
other networking i wouldn't call it a
challenge but it's something we really
have our eye on is
once we've gotten people in it's amazing
how starved people are for community
once they're in there they'll talk about
everything they'll talk about the coffee
they have this morning they'll talk
about what they're doing on the weekend
they'll talk about what their kids are
up to
i mean they actually talk about a lot of
things that are not directly related to
our software or business at all and they
really need that communal experience and
so i would tell people don't forget the
communal part of communities that's what
people i think more than ever are
craving right now we are seeing well
it's difficult to get them to carve out
the time once they do
they talk about everything yeah so with
that being said can you tell us how big
is the community or that's a
confidential information or do you also
assign a community manager well i can
tell you we're in the thousands we want
to be much bigger than thousands in nine
countries as i mentioned and i have
three community managers really are they
all full-time right they are in-house
they're all full-time and so we have one
person managing the community in north
america one person in india and one
person managing the english language
communities in the uk south africa and
australia got it those community
managers that trio of managers works
very tightly together to learn from each
other they have very different dynamics
in those regions but they learn from
each other about what customers are
responding to and how customers are
behaving
our recruitment strategy is something
that we have centralized and so we make
decisions centrally about how to recruit
and then sort of land it in that country
and execute with a lot of help from the
marketing teams on the ground in each
country but what's important to
sage to be able to have this be a really
scaled program is that there is
essential strategy and central decision
making about how to grow that community
i wrote a book about global content
marketing i read it cover to cover
thank you thank you melissa loved it
it's really about that balance and you
mentioned a very great point you brought
a very good point which is that delicate
balance between the central versus
decentralized that sounds like you have
three
local community managers that managing
it but in terms of recruitment that's
very much a central decision but there's
a lot of communication that needs to
happen at the local level will take
their own leads and talk to their fans
but i love it that in terms of the
recruitment is actually centralized that
makes perfect perfect sense to me
community managers i should mention are
geographically physically located
locally like on the ground in those
three regions but they report to me
yeah the relationship building that you
need to do when you're in a centralized
job is i can't enough how important that
is you have to build trust you have to
say yes to a lot of things in the early
days so people trust you and don't see
you as a roadblock and once you've built
that trust then you can come in and be a
little more prescriptive about what you
think is the right thing to do but it's
relationship building is just what you
have to do and you will get nowhere if
you're an essential
leadership role and you don't build the
right relationships oh my god music in
my ear seriously everyone you don't need
to read my book okay the door will come
tomorrow
movies are literally just summarized it
it's that important to actually build
that relationship with your local team
and they have that sense of trust is so
important if you don't have that it's
very hard to move things forward and you
know what if you actually have many
countries that you have to work with you
don't have that trust they will end up
ignoring you and listen they can't
ignore you because those local countries
have their own marketing budget they
don't have to listen to you they don't
have to answer your calls now you build
that community is pretty established and
do you use that community as a marketing
channel
yeah we do everything with that
community i know like one of your
expertise is actually content and you do
tons of content marketing and you're
leading stages global content marketing
efforts so how do you leverage the
content for the community do you have to
customize and localize content
especially in the mia the content is
going to be in french german and spanish
and portuguese so content-wise it's very
customized by language but what i would
say sort of how do we manage the
community doing everything the first
thing we did was we decided
there were certain things that we wanted
to happen in the community to make the
community feel
good and feel like they were getting
something out of the experience and so
60 of the things that happen in the
community are really what you could kind
of call
fun it's a gamification you get people
everything we do is gamified but the 60
is actually very focused on what's
really valuable to them share your
expertise network with exclusive
communities come to our keynote speaker
just for our champions things that are
really about making them feel recognized
and special exclusive
yes yeah exclusive and then 40 of the
things we do
also gamified are what i would say have
more
direct business value for sage so we may
ask you to refer a friend for sage
software we may ask you to be a sales
reference
for a sales conversation and we need
your expertise to talk to a prospect we
may ask you to leave a product review we
may ask you to participate in research
or talk to an analyst so in that bundle
of activities our champions are more
than happy to jump in and be involved in
those things because they are our super
fans and they have so much expertise
about our products but if that's all you
do
then your community is just going to
start to feel used after a while and
they're just not going to feel like
there's something really in it for them
so you really have to be careful to
balance what you're doing on sort of
that 60 40 that's the way we've set it
up but we're constantly checking
ourselves to make sure that people are
feeling the recognition that they need
to feel i think that's a perfect point
you want them to feel special but at the
same time there is a business purpose
for the community in terms of driving
the business growth and you're trying to
find that balance between the two and
you don't want them to feel that you are
using them and i love that
with that being said how do you plan do
you plan any kind of gamify type of
approach or do you kind of like plan the
editorial
like for every single quarter do you
have some sort of exclusive programs or
certain kind of events like the
highlights or whatnot that you engage
with your community members we
understand
at the high level like take the uk for
example the process we go through is we
understand commercially what is
important to the uk
let's say in this fiscal year and then
we understand what are the major
initiatives happening in each quarter
like well there might be a new product
introduction there might be an event
happening things like that so we
understand the marketing calendar in the
country and then we say to ourselves
where does the champion fit into this
marketing calendar
if there's a new product introduction
let's get the product in front of
champions first let's release for a beta
to champions first well they can
actually provide feedback yep right and
let's make them feel special by having
them see the product first if there's an
event
can we do an exclusive velvet rope
experience for a champion where they may
get to meet the ceo or they may get to
meet the keynote speaker or something
like that or have a private lunch or
something like that so where does the
champion fit into the marketing calendar
and then we design
what it is we want to do with those
champions but it's important to start at
the commercial
plan in the country or the geography
that your program is across
and then slot in things that you would
want to do with the champions because if
you plan your content by itself and say
well today we're going to talk about
kittens there's nothing wrong with
talking about kittens and actually
sometimes communities love to talk about
their pet actually a lot they love to
talk about their pets
but if you plan your content just
by yourself and your team and then you
go off and do it you miss all these
opportunities to actually really make
the community feel special amplify it
let me paraphrase it you obviously take
care of the community members well and
there is multiple different layers of
elements to actually engage with the
community members but at the same time
when you create a marketing plan
especially for the launches or even for
your integrated campaigns you will look
at that holistically and then determine
where the community or the super fans
can fit into a specific element
really trying to connect different dots
that's right exactly and so you are not
just treating the community as a
separate island of its own it's actually
another marketing channel but you want
to use it wisely and have the discussion
and it sounds like that discussion is
happening at the local level is that
right that's exactly right
how long has this community been around
it's only been a year in the us and the
uk a year and it's only been about six
months in emea
so it's very very new i know i have a
lot more to say about it
give me another year or two on i think
we'll have a lot more to say about it
you are going to come back i'll come
back yeah
i actually think the early days are sort
of the most instructive and i'm glad i'm
recording this video because i'll
probably go back and listen to it next
year like what did i learn again
given that it has been a year and you
use a third party platform and you try
to gamified as much as you can and you
also assign the full time the community
managers at the country level or the
local level to help grow it
sounds like you do put quite a bit of
budget to it right but the budget is in
terms of head count and also the budget
is in terms of content consumption how
do you manage or can you help us to
understand if anybody wants to launch a
community within enterprise or a fast
growing sas based platform company
how much budget do they need and how do
they manage that you don't have to share
with us in terms of how much money you
spend but maybe the range will help like
what kind of budget and resources they
do need to get started it's well into
the six figures not over half a million
it's somewhere between 100 000 to about
half a million
yeah so how do you do that if you follow
the 60 40 split so 60 is fun and 40 is
engaging
yeah business value yeah i like that
term
it isn't that our customers having fun
doesn't have business value to us it
definitely does but i'm talking about
sort of bottom line business values
if you think about 40 business value
what you need to do is forecast okay
how many sales references do i think i
could get with this program once it's at
a run rate that makes sense how many
sales referrals how many product reviews
what impact will this have on conversion
in the funnel what impact will this have
on reducing churn things like that so
you need to forecast
what business value you think this
program could logically deliver with
that 40 of activity focused on business
value and once you do that you can sort
of step back from that and say okay if
this is what i think i can get out of it
then i can afford to spend x whatever
that business value is and that's
exactly the exercise that we went
through i mean i won't tell you how many
spreadsheets exhaustive business pays i
can't wait i work in the culprit for a
long time i get it we counted every
penny right like what did we think we
could get back from this program
for the company to just to justify an
investment in a platform but anybody can
do that so i would just tell you to
start with where you think your business
value will be and add that up and
that'll tell you the range of what you
can realistically spend
and then the other thing i'd say about
cost there's two principal costs for us
one is the platform and the other are
marketing promotion costs like it's a
big bucket of marketing promotion but
that includes all the swag if you get
certain points we'll send you a sage
hoodie we'll send you a water bottle
yeah merchandising it's a merchandising
it's all the merchandising and what i
feel strongly about is that i'm going to
plug to all marketers out there we
marketers need to de-swag ourselves i
see that because
of all the sustainability things that
are being discussed right now in
business and in politics and in the
world
every decision we make as a business we
need to look at it much more critically
and ask ourselves do i really need to
order a thousand water bottles i
probably don't and so what does that
mean as far as gamification it means
that couldn't we reward our customers
with things like experiences or
donations to charity and won't the
customer as good maybe even better with
experiences and donations to charity
than they would getting sage water
bottle look at the environment i mean
how much trash
[Laughter]
how much waste that we generate how many
water bottles that we need and i hear
you i don't want to get my team in
trouble because we are still sending out
stage water bottles and we aren't
immediately going to stop doing that but
my vision is that we're going to get to
a point where we find rewards that are
non-material
that will be as valuable to the customer
so this is what we are looking at hard
and what we want to be committed to
doing and we're going to work our way
there and i think all marketers should
be
trying to do that that is such a great
point i did not even think about that
honestly yeah i don't think any of my
clients when he's talking about
merchandising especially trying to start
a conversation or trying to engage with
their prospect
in addition to content is always some
sort of merchandising right it's a
customer merchandise that you send it to
somebody and then somebody says oh this
is kind of nice so merchandising is a
means if you will like a conversation
opener but i like that you are looking
from slightly different perspective can
we not do that are there any other ways
that we can do that a little bit even
more effectively and yet still provide
that sense of value that emotional touch
that's needed with your prospect
so good point
thank you for thinking of that i would
love to hear marketers talk about merch
and how to de-merge ourselves because we
love merch we love merge i mean i love
stuff i mean i would go to i mean a lot
of time i will but obviously we are also
very selective in terms of what kind of
merch we want to get right but we love
merch like sometimes i was like even a
nice pen
i still i still take that
yep
so talk to us in terms of what are some
of the new initiatives that you plan to
do in 2022
working even better with our sales teams
right now we are semi-automated with our
reference and referral
process and are passing references and
referrals across to sales but i don't
think sales is quite equipped to receive
them and to know what to do with them
and to
really see the champions program as a
really powerful tool in their toolbox
and so i want to spend a lot of time
with sales teams and
make sure that my team understands what
they need and that we're getting that
out of our champion community and
bringing that to the sales teams
that's one really important thing the
second one is
automating a feedback loop to product
marketing
love it product marketing and service i
would say customer service because
we learn so much about our products and
how customers use our features and what
they like and what they don't like and
what's missing what they wish they had
all of this kind of stuff and again we
do feed it back to product marketing and
to our customer service teams but we do
it in a mainly manual way and i would
like to find a way to automate that so
it's just continuously flowing back to
the teams that need to see that feedback
those teams can act on it right away and
the the nirvana for us would be
that a customer says something on monday
gosh i wish i could have
unicorns in my app the unicorn filter
and we give it to product marketing and
then friday there's unicorns in the app
and we can say thank you john what a
great idea like vas and nirvana right
because then the customer is like wow
these people are actually paying
attention to me the customer and they're
talking to each other
in that company and then that gives me
so much more confidence as a customer i
love these two initiatives that you are
talking about so just echo in terms of
what you said earlier you're talking
about 60 40
right there's a 60 there's a gamify you
actually have to drive that personal
communication engagement with your super
fans but there's a 40 of it you need to
somehow get a certain kind of business
value because that would be your success
metrics right while you launch the
community
and i am
super thrilled and
incredibly impressed
that you are thinking about for that 40
you inject two additional elements to it
one is how to better
improve our product development in the
future that is a super super awesome
dashboard or even the metrics that you
can use to validate
the essence and the presence of the
community right and another one is
engaging with sales but i'm so happy oh
my god you made my day that you brought
up
and that's like engaging with sales as
one of the major initiatives for 2022.
oh my god i know a book i can recommend
a book about sales enablement that
someone wrote
oh my god i love you by the way if you
are watching or you are listening please
if you are listening you know why
subscribe if you are watching this video
please comment and subscribe below
please please please love love to hear
from you
so there are a lot of aspiring
young marketing professionals listen to
my channel do you have any career advice
for them
i've been in marketing for 25 years and
by the way you look gorgeous you look
great
why thank you yeah so half of it has
been in content and the other half has
been in the old days of mad men tv style
madison avenue advertising the
traditional market yeah traditional site
yes
so i really had a career that's been in
both worlds and what i would tell people
coming into marketing today is
marketing is technology technology is
marketing so if you are somebody who
is not comfortable with technology or
you think you're not comfortable with
technology the first thing i would tell
you is if an old dog like me can learn
how to use salesforce
everybody can you track you everybody
down
get your head around the tech there is
so much technology and marketing it's
really important to
just sit with it understand what it does
and be comfortable with technology
because if you don't want to touch the
technology with the eloqua or whatever
then you're going to really struggle as
a marketer i 100 away with that yeah
that said what i will observe as an old
style marketer is that the tech
has dehumanized marketing in my view i
think marketers today are very focused
on all the bits and bobs of the
technology
and very seldom do we stand back and go
who's the human on the other end of this
experience how are they feeling and
we
have to remember that marketing is about
one human communicating with another
human there's all kinds of tech that
goes in between and that enables us but
we have to remember the human side of
marketing it doesn't matter
what tech is introduced you still go
back to the person
yeah marketing is getting a person to
want something
and then it's getting that person to
want that thing and to take an action
and that at the end of the day has to
involve some kind of human connection
and if you let the tech get in the way
you're not going to get there you
brought a very good point on one hand
you need to embrace the technology on
the other hand you need to actually have
a certain kind of insight and wisdom how
are you going to maximize that but it's
not maximized to the point that's 100
automation and leave the human elements
out of it
right
it's not like you created a lot of auto
responses but even within the auto
responses that you created or the
workflow that you set up
that copy that you decided to write
needs to be very personable needs to be
engaging i need to be able to segment it
right but ultimately to the point that
everything is automated everything is
written by bot when people are talking
to you they feel like talking to a bot
right
so i completely
completely understand that you mentioned
that and thank you so much for doing
that it's really kind of like the
technologies the arts and science and as
a marketer that you have to kind of
somehow find that balance between the
arts and the science
in a way and i'll give you an example
our platform automates our program which
is great but when you go into the
program like let's say first thing in
the morning it'll say hi melissa
how are you doing today or something
like that we have a greeting at the top
of your dashboard and if you go in a few
hours later it says hi melissa it's
great to see you again it's all
automated but it's just we set rules to
make a person feel welcome and to feel
like there's a human on the other side
and also the copy is very important how
the popularity is written like a lot of
people like writing is dead trust me
writing is not dead
all right
so talk to us
what netflix show are you binge watching
right now it's not netflix but i'm gonna
veer off your question a little it's
apple plus okay oh good talk to us first
off i surely miss ted lasso
like crazy we just finished season two
and my husband and i keep coming home at
night like we missed ted but we have
started watching mr corman i think it's
called mr corman on apple plus the guy
is called gordon levitt i can't remember
the first name jonathan gordon-levitt
maybe but he wrote directed and starred
in this show it's a dramedy
and it's about the interior life of a
person struggling with panic and anxiety
oh wow
and it is so empathetically done it's so
insightful
deborah winger plays his mother and
she's fantastic oh really
i love her i couldn't describe it for
you but we are loving it we've been
watching three four episodes in a shot
it's really good mr corman all right
great suggestion love it now you're
saying i have to subscribe another
streaming
sorry
but if you have not seen ted lasso get
on it i saw season one i loved it i
loved it it was like really like wicked
sense of humor you know like you are not
laughing out loud but you are laughing
in your mind does that make sense yes
yes hey thank you so much for coming to
my show and your wisdom your inside and
also you provide a very specific
know-how
i am very grateful for that and i'm sure
my listeners and the people watching the
videos love it as well so can you talk
to us how they can reach out to you how
they can connect with you
probably the best way is to find me on
linkedin melissa romo at you know sage
if you search that you're going to find
me on linkedin i love to connect with
people i love to get messages and hear
what people are doing so absolutely for
sure reach out to me through that
channel i'm on twitter as at romo writer
too so if you just want to ping me i'm
there too awesome thank you so much
so happy to have you on my show again if
you like the show subscribe below
comment anytime i will respond to your
comment take care bye
great talking to you pam bye
never miss an episode of b2b marketing
and more by following us here on youtube
and leave a comment while you're at it
you can also find episodes wherever you
get your podcasts
[Music]